>> Scientists have created a new
phase of matter known as time
crystals, a quantum phenomenon
appearing to defy the laws
of thermodynamics.
Could this discovery
uppend our understanding
of classical physics?
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
A team of researchers developing
Google's Sycamore quantum
computer announced the
successful creation
of a time crystal that
lasted for 100 seconds.
This novel phase
of matter appears
to defy the second law
of thermodynamics, which
states that entropy,
or chaos and disorder,
always increases in
an isolated system.
In other words, energy must
be put into a system in order
to maintain structure or
motion, but time crystals
have been observed to maintain
a constant state of flux
without losing any energy.
Dr. Simeon Hein, director of
the Institute of Resonance,
explains the science behind
the strange phenomenon.
>> Crystals are in everything
that we do, because--
they're in watches--
they're in so many things
because they're regular.
They create evenness.
They create this consistency.
Just like their pattern
is very consistent,
the energy that
crystals transmit
turns into a very
regular pattern,
which is why you can use a
quartz crystal in a watch.
You can put kind of a
noisy electrical signal in,
but it'll come out as
a very consistent beat.
And that created the
idea for some people,
in this case Frank
Wilczek from MIT in 2012,
to propose the idea that you
not only had crystals in space,
you could have crystals in time.
You could create a sort
of oscillating circuit.
Using specific
quantum principles,
you could create a very
constant quantum beat.
>> Time crystals have been
described as the first
out-of-equilibrium
phase of matter,
meaning they maintain order
while in an excited state.
But how do time
crystals accomplish this
without expending energy?
>> At a quantum level, they're
getting energy from something
we call the zero
point energy field.
The zero point energy field
is the lowest ground state
of quantum matter.
But the lowest state
doesn't mean, like,
absolute zero, like
nothing is happening,
because the quantum
ground state is actually
the base state of the universe
where, even though there's
nothing happening, the
field itself generates
energy and causes
random fluctuations,
and particles to
pop out of nowhere,
and all sorts of really
interesting effects
that normally, I should
say most of the time,
we don't see in our
regular physical reality.
So these coherently
entangled particles
would be deriving their energy
from the quantum vacuum field.
But if they're getting their
energy from the quantum
vacuum instead of
our classical world,
you can't see any reason
why they would eventually
have to wind down, like
our regular clocks would,
and energy would dissipate.
>> With this new discovery of
time crystals appearing to defy
the second law of
thermodynamics,
how has mainstream science
reacted or tried to reconcile
this paradox?
>> A lot of these quantum
phenomena seem to defy
classical physics.
The whole idea of
quantum entanglement
suggests faster-than-light
interaction or communication.
Einstein called it "spooky
action at a distance."
And experiments later
confirmed that you
could take pairs of
particles and separate them,
and you would do something
to one of the particles.
The other particle would,
you know, immediately react,
instantly react, at farther
and farther distances away.
>> As scientists continue to
examine the baffling mechanisms
of particles at
the quantum scale,
what implications could this
have at the macro scale?
Could this explain
paranormal phenomena
or lead to the creation of
a perpetual motion device?
>> It suggests that things
could be possible that you
didn't believe in before,
things like remote viewing
and phenomena around UFOs
and things like this.
It could tell us about
some of these phenomena,
and perhaps there's
a quantum component
to some of what's called
paranormal phenomena.
And this sort of
research gets it going.
This is the real issue
in quantum mechanics.
Where do quantum
principles apply?
Whether it be poltergeists
or some of the weird time
anomalies people experience
around-- you know,
the missing time phenomena
that people experience
around UFO encounters.
And other encounters
like that, even Bigfoot,
seem to have a quantum component
to them, Bigfoot encounters,
in terms of the effects on
electronics and batteries.
So this sort of
questioning in research
could possibly lead
in that direction.
>> While researchers work
to create time crystals that
maintain coherence for
more than a few minutes,
this latest iteration lasted
exponentially longer than when
they were first
discovered in 2016.
Will the Google team
be able to create
a state of significant
coherence for time
crystals in the future?
And what else can we learn
from these enigmatic quantum
crystals?
Researchers are continuing
to study the implications
of this discovery.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.